.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Darren Kirby (bulliver@gmail.com)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.TH GETMNTPT 3 2014-09-26
.SH NAME
getmntpt \- return mount point for given PATH
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#include <libstatfsext.h>
.sp
.BI "int getmntpt(const char *" path ", char *" mount_point ");
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR getmntpt()
will will return a pointer to a string which names the mount point for any given path. 
The function takes two arguments:
.I path
is the relative or absolute pathname of any file, directory, or special device that is currently accessable.
.I mount_point
is a pointer to an empty string which should be of size PATH_MAX or at least 255 chars.


.SH USAGE
.PP 
.in +4n
.nf
#include <libstatfsext.h>

int main(void) {
    char *path = "/var/log/messages";
    char mount_point[PATH_MAX];
    char *mount_p = mount_point;

    if (getmntpt(path, mount_p) != 0)
        return ERROR;

    /* do stuff */

    return 0;
}
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
(See also
.B path_resolution (7).)
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path 
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The file referred to by
.I path
does not exist.
.SH CONFORMING TO
Should work with any POSIX, but I have only tested on Linux, FreeBSD, and OS X. 
.SH BUGS
Probably lots. The author strongly prefers you report bugs by opening an issue at
.B libstatfsext 
github page: 
.B https://github.com/DarrenKirby/libstatfsext/issues.
If you prefer not, send an email to <bulliver@gmail.com>
.SH AUTHOR
Darren Kirby <bulliver@gmail.com>

